# Week 1:

Well, I underestimated how thick the Operating systems book was, plus some other stuff in my life which lead to absolutely nothing done on the days I had planned to. I didn't even get Linux set up on my PC. Although, I did at least figure out that I wanted to just use a Virtual box instead of duel booting like I had originally intended, so I believe that will streamline the process a good bit.

That being said, the OS book has hours and hours of content that I personally do not wish to read, I honestly want to get my hands in there or find a book that condenses the material enough that I can sit there for an hour or two, learn what the chapter wants me to, and go to apply it. Yet alas, it is the main book on my school so I will be persevering and changing direction.

Making my own kernel will probably have to be put on the sidelines for now as first and foremost I **have** to pre-read at least some of the OS book and notate and consolidate it down into a manageable format. Additionally, reading more of the C book or just learning C by programming in it would be best. Probably I should run through the CS50 course again as I know they used C for their stuff. As much as I adore the Pointers in C book, I can only take so much reading technical books at once before my brain gets spinny. So for congruently learning C I will take a more hands-on approach and focus on the pointers chapters from the C book once I encounter them in the OS book.

The good news is that chapters within the Little book about OS Development are fairly short, meaning once I understand the fundamentals using the classroom OS book, I should be able to get things up and running fairly quickly. Additionally, I found someone who turned the first couple of chapters into an audiobook, so that should help me good a good while.

From the bit of reading I did, I learned that the Operating system is really just the Kernel. Although we can't really *define* what an operating system is due to the multitudes of different applications, both user-facing and non user-facing, the widely accepted definition is it is the application that is always running on the machine and that specific program's job is to allocate resources properly based on the machines function. There are then other applications stacked on top of the kernel (which is congruent to the word "Operating System")  the first are system applications which are programs that are associated with the kernel, but are not part of the kernel application. The second are the Application programs which is basically everything else that is not the kernel or system applications, but was defined as 'everything not included with the operation of the system'. A brief discussion on middleware was discussed, but for the purposes of what I am using the book for, it was irrelevant information.

Either way, my new plan is to read the book that is assigned in my school and get through Chapters 1 and 2. Once I get that done, which hopefully should only take me about two weeks, I'll rocket back into making my own kernel. Sunday will mostly likely be the day that most progress will happen. Friday I will use for studying C and Saturday will be reserved for relaxation.

Good luck to me!

---